# Sustainability & Ethics

1. From what I've found about ethics in regard to AI data centers and AI companies, I've come across that for the most part they are grossly unethical, with them outsourcing labor like data labeling, and mining companies for cheap. Along with the mass amounts of carbon they produce just in training, and with that training it often involves subjecting other people to see some of the most depraved things that exist on the internet, in writing or otherwise, while still paying them not even a reasonable wage, without reasonable compensation, and long hours of this.
2.
https://www.forbes.com/sites/dianneplummer/2025/08/28/ai-training-fuels-massive-carbon-costs-and-demands-greener-solutions/
https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2025/sep/11/google-gemini-ai-training-humans#:~:text=AI%20raters%3A%20the%20shadow%20workforce,generalist%20raters%20and%20super%2
super%20raters.
https://crossdockinsights.com/p/critical-minerals-powering-data-centers
3. I have made attempts to only use AI on my own, when it is absolutely necessary or I need the assistance of it, and I do attempt to avoid using it when possible even in this class, however I estimate that I have produced around 200 grams of CO2 at least, from the amount of conversations I have had with AI’s. I do look forward to being better and using AI less in the future, and only as a last resort and once I am fully certain I have exhausted all other options of figuring something out. However I won’t pretend I am fully capable of avoiding AI’s, as things like algorithms and AI’s that companies push onto us as consumers are things I can’t avoid or stop from happening.
4. As individuals, it's up to us to decide how we actually utilize AI, the best way to utilize it in my opinion is at least right now to use it as a starting point, and a guiding hand, but never as a work around or a way out of something you just don’t want to do. On a systemic level, there need to be limitations set on these companies, and checks that these data centers aren't complete detriments to nature, or people. The people responsible for how AI is utilized is on us as people, It's our decision to use them on a daily basis, however it is the role of companies to make sure these AI’s are being responsible, and aren’t just being used for a trend, or as a cash grab.